.TH "/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/include/model_path.h" 3 "Wed Sep 1 2021" "Version 2.1.0" "Bsoft" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/include/model_path.h \- Library routines used for model processing\&.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'rwmodel\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'Matrix\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'Bstring\&.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMatrix\fP \fBmodel_shortest_path\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the shortest path between every pair of vertices\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBmodel_wiener_index\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the Wiener index\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBmodel\fP * \fBmodel_hamiltonian_cycle\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the Hamiltonian cycles in a model\&. "
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Library routines used for model processing\&. 


.PP
\fBAuthor\fP
.RS 4
Bernard Heymann 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate\fP
.RS 4
Created: 20060908 
.PP
Modified: 20150208 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBmodel_path\&.h\fP\&.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBBmodel\fP* model_hamiltonian_cycle (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates the Hamiltonian cycles in a model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
Bmodel* linked list of models with cycle links\&. 
.PP
.nf
A Hamiltonian cycle passes through each component once.
The cycles are limited to the links in the input model.
Redundant cycles are discarded.
Only the first model in the linked list is used.
Each of the resultant models has links forming a Hamiltonian cycle.

.fi
.PP
 Reference: H\&. Wiener, J\&. Am\&. Chem\&. Soc\&., 1947, 69, 17\&. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 240 of file model_path\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBMatrix\fP model_shortest_path (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates the shortest path between every pair of vertices\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
\fBMatrix\fP path matrix\&. 
.PP
.nf
The adjacency matrix is calculated as a starting point.
Only the first model in the linked list is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 36 of file model_path\&.cpp\&.
.SS "double model_wiener_index (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates the Wiener index\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
double average Wiener index\&. 
.PP
.nf
The Wiener index is calculated as the sum of the elements of
the shortest path matrix.
Only the first model in the linked list is used.

.fi
.PP
 Reference: H\&. Wiener, J\&. Am\&. Chem\&. Soc\&., 1947, 69, 17\&. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 82 of file model_path\&.cpp\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bsoft from the source code\&.
