.TH "/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/include/model_shell.h" 3 "Wed Sep 1 2021" "Version 2.1.0" "Bsoft" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/include/model_shell.h \- Library routines used for shell model processing\&.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'rwmodel\&.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBmodel_add_shell\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, double add_distance, \fBBstring\fP &new_type)"
.br
.RI "Adds a shell to a model using selected components\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmodel_adjust_shell_to_guide\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, \fBBmodel\fP *gmod, double fraction, int curv_flag)"
.br
.RI "Adjusts a shell model to the faces of a polyhedral guide model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBmodel\fP * \fBmodel_components_to_shells\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, double \fBdistance\fP, \fBBstring\fP &nutype, int twod)"
.br
.RI "Generates a new set of models by vonverting each component to a shell model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBmodel_sphericity\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates how close the model is to a spherical shape\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBmodel_ellipsoidicity\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates how close the model is to an ellipsoid shape\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmodel_curvature\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the curvature associated with each link\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBmodel_inside_outside\fP (\fBVector3\fP< double > vec, \fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, int curv_flag, int fast)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Library routines used for shell model processing\&. 


.PP
\fBAuthor\fP
.RS 4
Bernard Heymann 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate\fP
.RS 4
Created: 20060908 
.PP
Modified: 20161013 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBmodel_shell\&.h\fP\&.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "long model_add_shell (\fBBmodel\fP * model, double add_distance, \fBBstring\fP & nutype)"

.PP
Adds a shell to a model using selected components\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.br
\fIadd_distance\fP distance to shift new components\&. 
.br
\fI&nutype\fP new component type\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
long number of components in new shell\&. 
.PP
.nf
Each selected component is duplicated and shifted radially.
Only the first model in the list is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 32 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "int model_adjust_shell_to_guide (\fBBmodel\fP * model, \fBBmodel\fP * gmod, double fraction, int curv_flag)"

.PP
Adjusts a shell model to the faces of a polyhedral guide model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP shell model\&. 
.br
\fI*gmod\fP guide polyhedron model\&. 
.br
\fIfraction\fP fraction to adjust\&. 
.br
\fIcurv_flag\fP flag to indicate curved surface\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
int 0\&. 
.PP
.nf
For each component, it is determined whether it is located inside or 
outside the appropriate polyhedral face, and its coordinates adjust
closer to the face by the indicated fraction.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 84 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBBmodel\fP* model_components_to_shells (\fBBmodel\fP * model, double distance, \fBBstring\fP & nutype, int twod)"

.PP
Generates a new set of models by vonverting each component to a shell model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.br
\fIdistance\fP distance between components\&. 
.br
\fI&nutype\fP new component type\&. 
.br
\fItwod\fP flag to indicate a 2D model\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
Bmodel* new list of models\&. 
.PP
.nf
Each selected component is converted to a shell model.
The radius is taken from the original component radius.
The given distance defines the distance between the new
components and their radii.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 138 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "int model_curvature (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates the curvature associated with each link\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure (views modified)\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
int 0\&. 
.PP
.nf
The difference angle in the normals or view vectors of each pair of
vertices of a link represents the curvature for that link.
Curvature at each component is calculated as the average of the 
curvature of the attached links and set as the component FOM.
The model curvature is calculated as the average component curvature
and set as the model FOM.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 280 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "double model_ellipsoidicity (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates how close the model is to an ellipsoid shape\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
double ellipsoidicity\&. 
.PP
.nf
The principal axes are calculated first.
Then the fit to an ellipsoid function is calculated.
Only the first model in the list is processed.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 235 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "double model_inside_outside (\fBVector3\fP< double > vec, \fBBmodel\fP * model, int curv_flag, int fast)"

.PP
Definition at line 402 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SS "double model_sphericity (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates how close the model is to a spherical shape\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
double sphericity\&. 
.PP
.nf
The deviation of vertices from the average radius is calculated.
Only the first model in the list is processed.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 195 of file model_shell\&.cpp\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bsoft from the source code\&.
