.TH "/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/src/bafm.cpp" 3 "Wed Sep 1 2021" "Version 2.1.0" "Bsoft" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/src/bafm.cpp \- Simulation of AFM experiments\&.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'rwimg\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'utilities\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'options\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'timer\&.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBimage\fP * \fBafm_generate_tip\fP (\fBVector3\fP< long > size, \fBVector3\fP< double > sampling, double radius, double \fBangle\fP, double resolution)"
.br
.RI "Generates a rounded conical AFM tip\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBplot\fP * \fBafm_simulate\fP (\fBBimage\fP *ptip, \fBBimage\fP *p, double spring, double modulus, double thick)"
.br
.RI "Simulates and AFM experiment\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBimage\fP * \fBafm_force_to_height\fP (\fBBimage\fP *pf, double force_step)"
.br
.RI "Converts an AFM force map into a set of 2D height images at different constant force values\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBmain\fP (int argc, char **argv)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBafm_simulate_at_xy\fP (\fBBimage\fP *ptip, \fBBimage\fP *p, long ii, float *force, double spring, double modulus, double thick)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBverbose\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBuse\fP []"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Simulation of AFM experiments\&. 


.PP
\fBAuthor\fP
.RS 4
Bernard Heymann 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate\fP
.RS 4
Created: 19990124 
.PP
Modified: 20170612 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBbafm\&.cpp\fP\&.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBBimage\fP * afm_force_to_height (\fBBimage\fP * pf, double force_step)"

.PP
Converts an AFM force map into a set of 2D height images at different constant force values\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*pf\fP force map\&. 
.br
\fIforce_step\fP force intervals for height images 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
*ph height images\&. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 448 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBBimage\fP * afm_generate_tip (\fBVector3\fP< long > size, \fBVector3\fP< double > sampling, double radius, double angle, double resolution)"

.PP
Generates a rounded conical AFM tip\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fIsize\fP size of the tip density 
.br
\fIsampling\fP sampling/spacing (in angstrom/pixel) 
.br
\fIradius\fP radius of the tip curvature (in angstrom) 
.br
\fIangle\fP angle of the tip side (in radians) 
.br
\fIresolution\fP the resolution affects the tip surface softness 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
Bimage* tip 3D map\&. 
.PP
.nf
A 2D image of a conical tip is generated, with a 45 degree angle and
a rounding tip with the desired radius and softness.
The 2D image is then converted to a 3D surface using the function 
img_to_surface and returned.  The density of beta-silicon nitride
of 1.925 Da/A3 is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 200 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBBplot\fP * afm_simulate (\fBBimage\fP * ptip, \fBBimage\fP * p, double spring, double modulus, double thick)"

.PP
Simulates and AFM experiment\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*ptip\fP AFM tip density map - converted to force map\&. 
.br
\fI*p\fP specimen density map\&. 
.br
\fIspring\fP AFM cantilever spring constant (N/m)\&. 
.br
\fImodulus\fP bulk modules (N/m2)\&. 
.br
\fIthick\fP sample thickness (angstrom)\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
Bplot* force curve\&. 
.PP
.nf
The elastic force on an AFM tip is calculated as:
    F = kt*dz = kb*dV/d
where   kt is the cantilever spring constant, typically 0.01 - 0.1 N/m.
        dz is the tip displacement due to specimen interaction.
        kb is the bulk modulus of the specimen, typically 1e9 N/m2.
        dV is the volume of the specimen displaced by the tip. This
            volume is here approximated as the density overlap volume.
        d is the specimen thickness in angstrom.
The tip is positioned at each point (x,y,z) in the density map and the
overlap volume calculated (i.e., a type of convolution).  This tip
position corresponds to a zero displacement.  The correct tip position
is found by shifting the tip upwards (in the z-direction) until the 
displacement and elastic forces are approximately equal.  The tip 
displacement is refined by interpolation and the force calculated.  
The force map is returned in place of the original density map.
Forces are calculated in piconewton. 
The origin of the tip density is taken as nx/2, ny/2, 0.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 358 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SS "int afm_simulate_at_xy (\fBBimage\fP * ptip, \fBBimage\fP * p, long ii, float * force, double spring, double modulus, double thick)"

.PP
Definition at line 265 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SS "int main (int argc, char ** argv)"

.PP
Definition at line 62 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SH "Variable Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "const char* use[]"

.PP
Definition at line 25 of file bafm\&.cpp\&.
.SS "int verbose\fC [extern]\fP"

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bsoft from the source code\&.
