.TH "Bsymmetry" 3 "Wed Sep 1 2021" "Version 2.1.0" "Bsoft" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Bsymmetry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <symmetry\&.h>\fP
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBsymmetry\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBsymmetry\fP (\fBBstring\fP sym)"
.br
.RI "Symmetry constructor from a symmetry identifier\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBpoint\fP (int i)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBpoint\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBpoint\fP () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBspace\fP (int i)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBspace\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBlabel\fP (\fBBstring\fP &s)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBstring\fP & \fBlabel\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBorder\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBoperations\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBsymop\fP & \fBoperator[]\fP (int i)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "vector< \fBMatrix3\fP > \fBmatrices\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBtransform\fP (\fBMatrix3\fP &mat)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 61 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SH "Constructor & Destructor Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "Bsymmetry::Bsymmetry ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 101 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "Bsymmetry::Bsymmetry (\fBBstring\fP sym)"

.PP
Symmetry constructor from a symmetry identifier\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fIsym\fP string containing point group identifier\&. 
.PP
.nf
The point group symmetries are identified by the following strings:
    C<n>        cyclic point group of order n.
    D<n>            dihedral point group of order n.
    T           tetrahedral point group.
    O           octahedral/cubic point group.
    I           icosahedral/dodecahedral point group.
    H<r>,<a>,<d>    helical symmetry with rise r, rise angle a and dyad d (1/2).
For the higher symmetries the following adjustments are available:
    T-3         no three-fold operator.
    O-2         no two-fold operator.
    O-3         no three-fold operator.
    O-4         no four-fold operator.
    I-2         no two-fold operator.
    I-3         no three-fold operator.
    I-5         no five-fold operator.
    I90         90 degrees rotated around z-axis.
    I90-3           90 degrees rotated around z-axis and no three-fold operator.
If the point group string is empty, the default is C1 (asymmetric).

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 42 of file symmetry\&.cpp\&.
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBBstring\fP& Bsymmetry::label ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 110 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "void Bsymmetry::label (\fBBstring\fP & s)\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 109 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "vector<\fBMatrix3\fP> Bsymmetry::matrices ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 118 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "int Bsymmetry::operations ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 116 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "\fBBsymop\fP& Bsymmetry::operator[] (int i)\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 117 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "int Bsymmetry::order ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 111 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "int Bsymmetry::point ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 105 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "int Bsymmetry::point () const\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 106 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "void Bsymmetry::point (int i)\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 104 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "int Bsymmetry::space ()\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 108 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "void Bsymmetry::space (int i)\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 107 of file symmetry\&.h\&.
.SS "void Bsymmetry::transform (\fBMatrix3\fP & mat)\fC [inline]\fP"

.PP
Definition at line 126 of file symmetry\&.h\&.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bsoft from the source code\&.
