.TH "/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/src/model/model_compare.cpp" 3 "Wed Sep 1 2021" "Version 2.1.0" "Bsoft" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
/Users/bernard/b20/bsoft/src/model/model_compare.cpp \- Functions to compare models and components\&.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'model_select\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'model_util\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'Matrix3\&.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include 'utilities\&.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBmodel_component_number_difference\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *model1, \fBBmodel\fP *model2)"
.br
.RI "Compares the numbers of components in two models\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBmodel_maxnum_components\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the largest number of components in a model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBmodel_compare\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *model1, \fBBmodel\fP *model2)"
.br
.RI "Compares two models\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMatrix\fP \fBmodel_adjacency_matrix\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP)"
.br
.RI "Constructs the adjacency matrix for a model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMatrix\fP \fBmodel_distance_matrix\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, int view_flag)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the distance matrix for a model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBMatrix\fP \fBmodel_distance_matrix\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *m1, \fBBmodel\fP *m2)"
.br
.RI "Calculates the distance matrix between two models\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "long \fBmodel_consolidate\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, double \fBdistance\fP)"
.br
.RI "Consolidates close components within a model\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBBmodel\fP * \fBmodels_consensus\fP (\fBBmodel\fP *\fBmodel\fP, double \fBdistance\fP)"
.br
.RI "Determines a consensus between models in a list\&. "
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBverbose\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Functions to compare models and components\&. 


.PP
\fBAuthor\fP
.RS 4
Bernard Heymann 
.RE
.PP
\fBDate\fP
.RS 4
Created: 20060908 
.PP
Modified: 20161012 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition in file \fBmodel_compare\&.cpp\fP\&.
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBMatrix\fP model_adjacency_matrix (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Constructs the adjacency matrix for a model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
\fBMatrix\fP adjacency matrix\&. 
.PP
.nf
The matrix contains ones for adjacent components and zero elsewhere. 
Only the first model in the linked list is used.
The component selections are reset.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 152 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "double model_compare (\fBBmodel\fP * model1, \fBBmodel\fP * model2)"

.PP
Compares two models\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model1\fP first model structure\&. 
.br
\fI*model2\fP second model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
double RMSD\&. 
.PP
.nf
Only the first models in the linked lists are compared.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 66 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "long model_component_number_difference (\fBBmodel\fP * model1, \fBBmodel\fP * model2)"

.PP
Compares the numbers of components in two models\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model1\fP first model\&. 
.br
\fI*model2\fP second model\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
long difference in the number of components\&. 
.PP
.nf
Only the first models in the lists are compared.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 26 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "long model_consolidate (\fBBmodel\fP * model, double distance)"

.PP
Consolidates close components within a model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.br
\fIdistance\fP cutoff distance to consider components to be the same\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
long number of components retained\&. 
.PP
.nf
A matrix is calculated from the pairwise distances between selected components.
Components closer to each other than the given distance are consolidated. 
Only the first model in the linked list is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 264 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBMatrix\fP model_distance_matrix (\fBBmodel\fP * m1, \fBBmodel\fP * m2)"

.PP
Calculates the distance matrix between two models\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*m1\fP first model structure\&. 
.br
\fI*m2\fP second model structure\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
\fBMatrix\fP distance matrix\&. 
.PP
.nf
The matrix is calculated from the pairwise distances between selected 
components. 
Only the first model in each linked list is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 236 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBMatrix\fP model_distance_matrix (\fBBmodel\fP * model, int view_flag)"

.PP
Calculates the distance matrix for a model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model structure\&. 
.br
\fIview_flag\fP flag to include views\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
\fBMatrix\fP distance matrix\&. 
.PP
.nf
The matrix is calculated from the pairwise distances between selected 
components, with the option to include the views.
When the views are included, the euclidean distances are rescaled to
the maximum so that their ranges are similar to the view differences. 
Only the first model in the linked list is used.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 189 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "long model_maxnum_components (\fBBmodel\fP * model)"

.PP
Calculates the largest number of components in a model\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
long largest number of components in a model\&. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 43 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SS "\fBBmodel\fP* models_consensus (\fBBmodel\fP * model, double distance)"

.PP
Determines a consensus between models in a list\&. 
.PP
\fBParameters\fP
.RS 4
\fI*model\fP model list\&. 
.br
\fIdistance\fP cutoff distance to consider components to be the same\&. 
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns\fP
.RS 4
long number of components retained\&. 
.PP
.nf
A matrix is calculated from the pairwise distances between selected components
from each apir of models.
Components closer to each other than the given distance in different
models are consolidated.
The component selection field contains the number of contributing components.
A new model containing the result is returned.

.fi
.PP
 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 324 of file model_compare\&.cpp\&.
.SH "Variable Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int verbose\fC [extern]\fP"

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Bsoft from the source code\&.
